Starting out without any artifacts, you will feel very squishy very often, and die just as often. 
While some classes are more tanky than others, 
there are other non-class related options you should be using to lessen your chances of instant death. 

This guide assumes you have all your pills, elixirs and poultices. 
VIALLIST MISSING, 
IC MISSING (pills only), and 
FC MISSING are very useful syntaxes.

LESSON INVESTMENT

Your class defences! 
Always get these first after the essentials like clotting in survival. You will likely have a CHELP or GHELP scroll listing what defences you need to learn.
Avoidance. 
While increased dodge/divert chance seems very boring on paper, it makes a world of difference practically. 
You should have your avoidance transcendent to be able to dodge and divert at the same time.

Miniskills. 
Transcending your miniskills provides 24% resistance to every element aside from Shadow and Spirit (you can see a breakdown of resistances on AUDIT, provided you have learned it in Survival).

Getting a few extra tattoo slots to use for things like Starburst and Crystal can be very useful, after the passive tattoos like boar, moon, and moss.

OTHER

Statpacks and enhancement. 
Having the right statpack for your class is essential to ensure you're doing the most damage you can while also being relatively tanky. The best defense is a good offense!

Starting at level 80, you will get enhancement points to use. Elene has gone over them in her guide here: ⁠primers⁠General Benefits, Enhancement C…

Firstaid defences upkeep. 
You will need to use FIRSTAID DEFENCE ON and ensure you have the following in your 
FIRSTAID PRIORITY DEFENCE LIST: 
insulation, levitation, temperance, speed, antivenin, waterbreathing. You can use FIRSTAID PRIORITY DEFENCE INSULATION 25 and so on to add them. 
While you're hunting, make sure to upkeep vigor as well, because it heals you whenever you land a critical hit.

Most of these will provide 10% resistance against certain elements. 
Levitation will keep you from slipping on ice, and from taking falling damage, 
speed will help you resist aeon, and 
waterbreathing will let you breathe underwater.

Enchantments. 
The resistances enchantment is the biggest one that will help here, followed by Eclipse depending on which stars at active.

Ylem orbs. 
You can TRADE TOKEN FOR (Red|Green|Blue|Yellow) at your city's pylon using research token to get these orbs which have 10 charges lasting 2 hours each, or 30 irl days of decay timer. 
Red and blue are the most important for survival, if you cannot afford all of them.
Research tokens can be obtained by collecting ylem mist in your ylem gauntlet (obtained from your pylon vendor) while killing things, 
and then turning in your ylem gauntlet to Barakin in Delve (path track Barakin) at an exchange rate of 40 mists = 1 token. 
Alternatively, the shops in your city might be selling research tokens as well, or you can ask over CT for help to get started.

Ylem amulets. 
At 15000 gold an amulet, lasting 12 days each, these are not the cheapest for someone starting out, 
but try to get yourself at least a white amulet which gives you +1 to all stats (worth the equivalent ot 2375 credits). 
If you've got extra gold to spare, yellow and blue are good for durability, purple is necessary for caster classes that use equilibrium to bash, 
and red is good for everyone who wants a little bit of a damage boost. You can only wear three amulets at a time!

They can be bought from your pylon's vendor mob, which will have any three random amulets available at any given time 
(PATH TRACK PYLON, and ASK Mogrov/Beymak/Breytal/Fridhild WARES, depending on your city). HELP YLEM MIST is a good read!
A good way to earn starter cash is by doing quests in the newbie areas while you're below level 31. 
Otherwise, your ylem mines will give 1000 gold every day. 
Repeatedly doing easy quests that give a gold payout is a good option, as hunting does not return a lot of gold until higher-leveled areas. 
Recommended areas for non-newbie quests include Attica, Arbothia, and Skythrone.

No matter how careful you are, you'll probably still die sometime or the other! 
To lessen your time in front of the soul mirror, you can MANIPULATE PYLON FOR RETURNING, 
which uses 30% residual reserves, and acts to return you to your pylon instantly after you die, on a 24 hour cooldown.
